README.md, before:

React Redux
=========================

Official React bindings for [Redux](https://github.com/reactjs/redux).  
Performant and flexible.

[![build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/reactjs/react-redux/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/reactjs/react-redux) [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-redux.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-redux)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-redux.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-redux)
[![redux channel on slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-redux@reactiflux-61DAFB.svg?style=flat-square)](http://www.reactiflux.com)


## Installation

React Redux requires **React 0.14 or later.**

```
npm install --save react-redux
```

This assumes that you’re using [npm](http://npmjs.com/) package manager with a module bundler like [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or [Browserify](http://browserify.org/) to consume [CommonJS modules](http://webpack.github.io/docs/commonjs.html).

If you don’t yet use [npm](http://npmjs.com/) or a modern module bundler, and would rather prefer a single-file [UMD](https://github.com/umdjs/umd) build that makes `ReactRedux` available as a global object, you can grab a pre-built version from [cdnjs](https://cdnjs.com/libraries/react-redux). We *don’t* recommend this approach for any serious application, as most of the libraries complementary to Redux are only available on [npm](http://npmjs.com/).

## React Native

As of React Native 0.18, React Redux 5.x should work with React Native. If you have any issues with React Redux 5.x on React Native, run `npm ls react` and make sure you don’t have a duplicate React installation in your `node_modules`. We recommend that you use `npm@3.x` which is better at avoiding these kinds of issues.

If you are on an older version of React Native, you’ll need to keep using [React Redux 3.x branch and documentation](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux/tree/v3.1.0) because of [this problem](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/2985).

## Documentation

- [Redux: Usage with React](http://redux.js.org/docs/basics/UsageWithReact.html)
- [API](docs/api.md#api)
  - [`<Provider store>`](docs/api.md#provider-store)
  - [`connect([mapStateToProps], [mapDispatchToProps], [mergeProps], [options])`](docs/api.md#connectmapstatetoprops-mapdispatchtoprops-mergeprops-options)
- [Troubleshooting](docs/troubleshooting.md#troubleshooting)

## How Does It Work?

We do a deep dive on how React Redux works in [this readthesource episode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJ38wSFbM3A).  
Enjoy!

## License

MIT

Commit message:

add "Caveat" section to readme noting how you can't dispatch during `componentWillMount` on the server
NOTE: I would have added other packages, but there are no popular Redux-specific routing packages other than [Redux First Router](https://medium.com/@faceyspacey/pre-release-redux-first-router-a-step-beyond-redux-little-router-cd2716576aea) that offer server-side data-fetching or route-based data-fetching in general. For example the most popular Redux-specific routing package, *Redux Little Router*, does not have data-fetching built in. Which means many users might still end up using `componentWillMount` while using it.

In the future, a short list should be amended here :)

README.md, after:

React Redux
=========================

Official React bindings for [Redux](https://github.com/reactjs/redux).  
Performant and flexible.

[![build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/reactjs/react-redux/master.svg?style=flat-square)](https://travis-ci.org/reactjs/react-redux) [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/react-redux.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-redux)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/react-redux.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-redux)
[![redux channel on slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-redux@reactiflux-61DAFB.svg?style=flat-square)](http://www.reactiflux.com)


## Installation

React Redux requires **React 0.14 or later.**

```
npm install --save react-redux
```

This assumes that you’re using [npm](http://npmjs.com/) package manager with a module bundler like [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or [Browserify](http://browserify.org/) to consume [CommonJS modules](http://webpack.github.io/docs/commonjs.html).

If you don’t yet use [npm](http://npmjs.com/) or a modern module bundler, and would rather prefer a single-file [UMD](https://github.com/umdjs/umd) build that makes `ReactRedux` available as a global object, you can grab a pre-built version from [cdnjs](https://cdnjs.com/libraries/react-redux). We *don’t* recommend this approach for any serious application, as most of the libraries complementary to Redux are only available on [npm](http://npmjs.com/).

## React Native

As of React Native 0.18, React Redux 5.x should work with React Native. If you have any issues with React Redux 5.x on React Native, run `npm ls react` and make sure you don’t have a duplicate React installation in your `node_modules`. We recommend that you use `npm@3.x` which is better at avoiding these kinds of issues.

If you are on an older version of React Native, you’ll need to keep using [React Redux 3.x branch and documentation](https://github.com/reactjs/react-redux/tree/v3.1.0) because of [this problem](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/issues/2985).

## Documentation

- [Redux: Usage with React](http://redux.js.org/docs/basics/UsageWithReact.html)
- [API](docs/api.md#api)
  - [`<Provider store>`](docs/api.md#provider-store)
  - [`connect([mapStateToProps], [mapDispatchToProps], [mergeProps], [options])`](docs/api.md#connectmapstatetoprops-mapdispatchtoprops-mergeprops-options)
- [Troubleshooting](docs/troubleshooting.md#troubleshooting)

## How Does It Work?

We do a deep dive on how React Redux works in [this readthesource episode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJ38wSFbM3A).  
Enjoy!

## Caveat

If you dispatch actions during `componentWillMount` the resulting state will not render in the wrapped component, nor in parents or sibblings. The idiomatic approach to SSR is to use a routing mechanism based on the URL to dispatch all the necessary actions on the store (and `await` on them if necessary) ***before*** calling `ReactDOMServer.renderTostring`.

You may want to checkout [Redux First Router](https://github.com/faceyspacey/redux-first-router) for a Redux-specific routing package that helps you resolve URL-driven pre-hydration on the server. Check the `thunk` option in their [server-rendering docs](https://github.com/faceyspacey/redux-first-router/blob/master/docs/server-rendering.md).

## License

MIT
