docs/introduction/getting-started.md, before:

---
id: getting-started
title: Getting Started with React Redux
hide_title: true
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'Introduction > Getting Started: First steps with React Redux'
---

# Getting Started with React Redux

[React Redux](https://github.com/reduxjs/react-redux) is the official [React](https://reactjs.org/) UI bindings layer for [Redux](https://redux.js.org/). It lets your React components read data from a Redux store, and dispatch actions to the store to update state.

## Installation

React Redux 7.1+ requires **React 16.8.3 or later**, in order to make use of React Hooks.

### Using Create React App

The recommended way to start new apps with React Redux is by using the [official Redux+JS template](https://github.com/reduxjs/cra-template-redux) for [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), which takes advantage of [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/).

```sh
npx create-react-app my-app --template redux
```

### An Existing React App

To use React Redux with your React app, install it as a dependency:

```bash
# If you use npm:
npm install react-redux

# Or if you use Yarn:
yarn add react-redux
```

You'll also need to [install Redux](https://redux.js.org/introduction/installation) and [set up a Redux store](https://redux.js.org/recipes/configuring-your-store/) in your app.

If you are using TypeScript, the React Redux types are maintained separately in DefinitelyTyped. You'll need to install those as well:

```bash
npm install @types/react-redux
```

The code used for this example is based on the [official Redux template](https://github.com/reduxjs/cra-template-redux). Additionally, the same code template for TypeScript can be found [here](https://github.com/reduxjs/cra-template-redux-typescript).

## API Overview

### `Provider`

React Redux includes a `<Provider />` component, which makes the Redux store available to the rest of your app:

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'

import { Provider } from 'react-redux'
import store from './store'

import App from './App'

const rootElement = document.getElementById('root')
ReactDOM.render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <App />
  </Provider>,
  rootElement
)
```

### Hooks

React Redux provides a pair of custom React hooks that allow your React components to interact with the Redux store.

`useSelector` reads a value from the store state and subscribes to updates, while `useDispatch` returns the store's `dispatch` method to let you dispatch actions.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import { useSelector, useDispatch } from 'react-redux'
import {
  decrement,
  increment,
  incrementByAmount,
  incrementAsync,
  selectCount,
} from './counterSlice'
import styles from './Counter.module.css'

export function Counter() {
  const count = useSelector(selectCount)
  const dispatch = useDispatch()

  return (
    <div>
      <div className={styles.row}>
        <button
          className={styles.button}
          aria-label="Increment value"
          onClick={() => dispatch(increment())}
        >
          +
        </button>
        <span className={styles.value}>{count}</span>
        <button
          className={styles.button}
          aria-label="Decrement value"
          onClick={() => dispatch(decrement())}
        >
          -
        </button>
      </div>
      {/* omit additional rendering output here */}
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Help and Discussion

The **[#redux channel](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bZ6au5t)** of the **[Reactiflux Discord community](http://www.reactiflux.com)** is our official resource for all questions related to learning and using Redux. Reactiflux is a great place to hang out, ask questions, and learn - come join us!

You can also ask questions on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com) using the **[#redux tag](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/redux)**.

## Docs Translations

- [Portuguese](https://fernandobelotto.github.io/react-redux)

Commit message:

Add "Learn Modern Redux" embed and point to better tutorials

docs/introduction/getting-started.md, after:

---
id: getting-started
title: Getting Started with React Redux
hide_title: true
sidebar_label: Getting Started
description: 'Introduction > Getting Started: First steps with React Redux'
---

import LiteYouTubeEmbed from 'react-lite-youtube-embed';
import 'react-lite-youtube-embed/dist/LiteYouTubeEmbed.css'

# Getting Started with React Redux

[React Redux](https://github.com/reduxjs/react-redux) is the official [React](https://reactjs.org/) UI bindings layer for [Redux](https://redux.js.org/). It lets your React components read data from a Redux store, and dispatch actions to the store to update state.

## Installation

React Redux 7.1+ requires **React 16.8.3 or later**, in order to make use of React Hooks.

### Using Create React App

The recommended way to start new apps with React Redux is by using the [official Redux+JS template](https://github.com/reduxjs/cra-template-redux) for [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app), which takes advantage of [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/).

```sh
npx create-react-app my-app --template redux
```

### An Existing React App

To use React Redux with your React app, install it as a dependency:

```bash
# If you use npm:
npm install react-redux

# Or if you use Yarn:
yarn add react-redux
```

You'll also need to [install Redux](https://redux.js.org/introduction/installation) and [set up a Redux store](https://redux.js.org/recipes/configuring-your-store/) in your app.

If you are using TypeScript, the React Redux types are maintained separately in DefinitelyTyped. You'll need to install those as well:

```bash
npm install @types/react-redux
```

The code used for this example is based on the [official Redux template](https://github.com/reduxjs/cra-template-redux). Additionally, the same code template for TypeScript can be found [here](https://github.com/reduxjs/cra-template-redux-typescript).

## API Overview

### `Provider`

React Redux includes a `<Provider />` component, which makes the Redux store available to the rest of your app:

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'

import { Provider } from 'react-redux'
import store from './store'

import App from './App'

const rootElement = document.getElementById('root')
ReactDOM.render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <App />
  </Provider>,
  rootElement
)
```

### Hooks

React Redux provides a pair of custom React hooks that allow your React components to interact with the Redux store.

`useSelector` reads a value from the store state and subscribes to updates, while `useDispatch` returns the store's `dispatch` method to let you dispatch actions.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import { useSelector, useDispatch } from 'react-redux'
import {
  decrement,
  increment,
  incrementByAmount,
  incrementAsync,
  selectCount,
} from './counterSlice'
import styles from './Counter.module.css'

export function Counter() {
  const count = useSelector(selectCount)
  const dispatch = useDispatch()

  return (
    <div>
      <div className={styles.row}>
        <button
          className={styles.button}
          aria-label="Increment value"
          onClick={() => dispatch(increment())}
        >
          +
        </button>
        <span className={styles.value}>{count}</span>
        <button
          className={styles.button}
          aria-label="Decrement value"
          onClick={() => dispatch(decrement())}
        >
          -
        </button>
      </div>
      {/* omit additional rendering output here */}
    </div>
  )
}
```

## Learning React Redux

### Learn Modern Redux Livestream

Redux maintainer Mark Erikson appeared on the "Learn with Jason" show to explain how we recommend using Redux today. The show includes a live-coded example app that shows how to use Redux Toolkit and React-Redux hooks with Typescript, as well as the new RTK Query data fetching APIs.

See [the "Learn Modern Redux" show notes page](https://www.learnwithjason.dev/let-s-learn-modern-redux) for a transcript and links to the example app source.

<LiteYouTubeEmbed 
    id="9zySeP5vH9c"
    title="Learn Modern Redux - Redux Toolkit, React-Redux Hooks, and RTK Query"
/>

## Help and Discussion

The **[#redux channel](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bZ6au5t)** of the **[Reactiflux Discord community](http://www.reactiflux.com)** is our official resource for all questions related to learning and using Redux. Reactiflux is a great place to hang out, ask questions, and learn - come join us!

You can also ask questions on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com) using the **[#redux tag](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/redux)**.

## Docs Translations

- [Portuguese](https://fernandobelotto.github.io/react-redux)
